# Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

=pod

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Changes6 - backward incompatible changes in Date::Manip 6.xx

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This describes all backwards incompatible changes made to the
Date::Manip module starting at version 6.00.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

For the most part, Date::Manip has remained backward compatible at
every release, but occasionally, a change is made which is backward
incompatible. These are documented here.  Major changes are marked
with asterisks.

=head1 6.05

=over 4

=item %z format

In Date::Manip 5.xx, the %z format in UnixDate printed the offset in the
form -0500. In 6.00, I changed that to -05:00:00, but this broke RFC 822
compliance.

I've changed %z back to -0500, and introduced a new format (%N) which
returns -05:00:00.

Incidentally, this is the LAST unused letter, so I am now going to have
to either stop adding formats, or add some extended format syntax. Not
sure yet which, but this may involve a backwards incompatible change in
the future.

=back

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the Date::Manip::Problems documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Date::Manip        - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
